Can you tell me about your
typical sleep should you will on
weekends?
On weekends is normally later.
Or or before we can go like
weekdays, like we can talk about
OK.
the weekdays and weekends.
On the week days is normally the
schedule has been pretty set and
tight, so I usually go to sleep
around 11:00 o'clock and wake
up, prance around 7:00 to 7:30
to.
It has been fixed, but what
happens is if you try to go to
sleep at 11 you might get go to
sleep at around 12:30 to 1:00
o'clock.
And then the weekends, because
it is the weekends at the the
last days of the week, a person
I may go sleep around 1:00 to
1:30 and wake up around 9:00.
And like, can you tell about
like the average time that you
are having in the weekdays and
weekends?
So I try to keep it pretty
consistent. I I have it is
I would sleep like.
around 8 hours. 8 hours is
enough for me even for both
weekends and weekdays.
OK.
So how do you usually feel when
you wake up in the morning? Do
you feel refreshed or tired?
This is this is depends on the
environment my sleep. So
normally I really hope so that I
feel refreshed and happy or but
lately it has been that I feel
groggy and tired and lethargic.
But.
So.
Yeah, I I I should. It is
normally in the weekdays I would
feel.
You're mythologic, but then
weekends I'm I'm pretty
refreshed.
And what are some factors that
impact your ability to fall
asleep?
So the fact that I would say is
doing affecting my is my
environment because almost
sleeping, I live in a hostel or
something like a House of
residence. So I'm I don't have
my bed. It is not my environment
my it is not the temperature
that I feel that I can change
that I have a better and better
sleep cycle and the situation
with the light, the incoming
light from the outside there is
a spotlight right outside my
window.
Destroys my sleep cycle, so I I
feel that.
And my environment is one of the
major factors contributing to my
to my sleep.
About sleep.
And like it is it like at times
it's noise or something.
It is not noise. I I'm pretty
resilient to noise, so I'm noisy
environments do not affect me
that much. It is light light.
Light source does affect my
sleep.
Uh, enlightened temperature do
you mean?
The lights and temperature does
affect my Skype. Yeah, I find
And.
all comfortable to sleep in a
cold in the environment and
having a hot bed.
Umm.
Is the ideal.
Thing that I would sleep on.
And what are some the fact like,
what about, like, wake up waking
up?
The fact is that impact your
ability to wake up.
So wake.
The fact is that affect my life.
I wake up. Is it? I wake up
without noise and I wake up to
my own time and I wake up with
light. That is another thing. It
must be bright outside.
I mean, what are the factors
like what makes it hard for you
to wake up?
So that would be that if I
didn't have any.
Proper sleep? I didn't go to REM
sleep or.
It's just that my I.
Yeah, that's the thing. I
haven't gone to. I haven't had
proper sleep. I didn't sleep. I
don't relax. That's the thing
that affects my sleep.
My wake up sleeping.
Have you ever experienced
negative effects of lack of
sleep such as difficulty
concentrating or feeling
irritable?
Uh, yes, this is one. And this
is one of the things that I've
been affected. So that goes as
the authority not able to
concentrate, feeling very dull,
not feeling cloudy too. My brain
is having brain fog accounts,
understanding conversation not
knowing when I'm going to be
leaving or where I'm going to
and having a bad sense of
direction is one of the few
things that I say that lack of
sleep does for me.
And have you ever used any
application or technology to
help improve your sleep habits?
If so, how was your experience?
So I have used.
Some apps, but I would say a
pretty.
Redundant apps too. I use an
alarm to wake up because I find
that helpful and I would say
having some.
Calm, calm music. Some lofi type
of music. Some ambient noises
can help me sleep better. White
noise, some white noise.
Gets me to the mood of sleeping.
Yeah, those are the two things
So.
She like.
that.
Have you tried any application
that you mentioned like like or
something?
Uh, no, I haven't used any
application as specific to see.
And and technology like, you
know, tracking your sleep
before.
Uh technology is? Yeah, I have
used variables, watches for one
Through the like the variables
and, etcetera.
time because to help track my
sleep. And when I go to sleep
and you calculate some types and
like if that would be the Apple
Watch and stuff like that. But
I've not used them since a while
now it I used them when they
were released, but when they
And.
were pretty reentry. But I have
left.
Behind.
Was it effective like track to
track your sleep and everything?
Not in. I know it was not Salina
for me.
Alright, OK.
What I would say is that was uh,
it becomes something like a a
reward thing that ohh you have
sleep 8 hours you have greased
your goal that was becoming
itself very toxic to me. That
OK, I'm not reaching that goal
of sleep or not reaching so I
just completely stopped seeing
those numbers and tracking them
to just get those things out of
my mind.
Do you have any specific goals
related to improve improving
your sleep habits?
Uh, some of my goals is me to go
on time to sleep, time
designated to say 10:00.
O'clock. I want to go to sleep
at 10:00. O'clock. I should
sleep and wake up at 6:00
o'clock. But I find it pretty.
This is one of my immediate
goals to fulfill.
While my sleep.
And what we just would you like
to see in an app designed to
promote healthy sleep habits?
So.
One of the things that I find
that it should connect to my
smart devices on off The thing
is like my LED lines are my LED
lights, my LED strips so when it
is time to sleep they just
dumbed down or dull down. Have a
color that is very.
Dark.
So I wouldn't be known that it's
gonna be time to sleep. And when
it's time to wake up, just go on
full blast. Like, OK, it's the
morning wake up.
Mm-hmm.
Alright.
And how do you currently wake
up? Is it like alarms that you
use?
I do use an arm to wake up just.
And do you said like multiple
alarms?
No, no, I do not use this new
feature. I don't set up multiple
alarms, one arm, one alarm is
enough one. It's just that if I
don't feel like waking up, I
would just not put the alarm to
snooze. I would let keep letting
it run to annoy me, that I need
to wake up.
And I'd like is the method that
you are using, is it it
effective for you?
Yes, it is effective for me. I
do wake up one time. I do not
miss my classes. I I do not miss
my schedule passes so it is
enough for me.
Currently.
But what? What do you think?
Like if there is a better alarm,
like an smart alarm which wakes
you in the light of phase of
your rim cycle, rather than just
on the random time?
No, I would not prefer that
because those are not random
times. Those are fixed times
that I need to schedule that I
need to wake up in any
situation. I need to go on that
Umm.
time. So even if I'm in there,
I'm sleep. I might miss some
important event that I have to
attend. I will say that timings
are usually better to be full to
follow.
A new person may not miss that
event in his life.
Whether that's going to 10:00
o'clock yeah, yeah.
Yeah, so it's like.
Say it's like, you know, we we
get the R.E.M. Cycle for like
4045 minutes, right?
Yes.
So when you set an alarm, for
example, let's assume 8 in the
morning, so the the application
will track your sleep and you
Umm.
know rim cycles it calculate
your R.E.M. Cycles and when like
you set your goal for eight. So
maybe it can the best time to
for you to wake up was like
7:45. So it'll wake you at 7:45
in the light of phases of your
R.E.M. Cycle rather than on 8
when you were in the deeper
phase of the R.E.M. Cycle.
That's what I'm trying to say.
So if one thing that I would say
that if I if my sleep has
achieved around cycle, if it has
achieved deep deep, it's in the
second phase is if it has
achieved that I should wake up
at the lighter cycle. I would
prefer that my alarm goes off at
the lighter cycle that I have
fulfilled the need I've of
sleep. I have not overfilled it.
Umm.
How important is it to you to
you to wake up feeling refreshed
and energized in the morning?
It is very important because it
can just it. It is if it affects
your decision making, because
sometimes decisions and depend
on having a person being
energized. Normally a person is
very active in the first hours
of his day. That would be from 8
to 12, so it would be preferred
that the person is fully
energized in that time that he
fulfills his task.
All right. And something that
there's something that you like
to add on that?
I'm pretty OK with that
statement.
Alright. Do you have any
concerns about using technology
such as machine learning,
artificial intelligence or
biometric sensors to improve
your sleep? If so, what are
they?
Well, The thing is, it is pretty
concerning for the use of
artificial intelligence. It's
the personalized system that a
person can easily track there.
There's increasing.
The A13 leaks of bitter privacy
and unlike doctors, engineers or
the data companies, are not
very.
Umm. Be careful for data privacy
so any leaks can cause harm to a
person, a person. Any bad actors
may know these leaks cycle a
person living his house at this
time he wakes, he goes up, he
goes home to sleep. At this time
is a point quite dangerous
situation if not handled
correctly.
Yeah.
What are some of the challenges
you face when it comes to
maintaining healthy sleep
habits?
Some of the changes that I would
face is my diet, especially so I
have a pretty bad habit of
taking.
I caffeinated energy drinks or
caffeinated drinks such as
coffee and tea at late at night
to work on them. And I found
that after taking them around
6:00 PM or 18 o'clock it has
been very difficult to go to
sleep. But it designated time of
10 to 12 because the energy is
still lasts and it, and if
you're not doing anything, those
things lead you to invite in
stressful stress, which causes
again raising thoughts or racing
thoughts that that.
Further caused them.
And then like in a negative
feedback loop type of system,
that and further cause bad
thoughts that the person might
find it difficult to sleep.
And do you consider like the
social pressures in that thing
as well?
So no, I I do not consider
social pressures.
And because because the person.
Social pressure, as in like your
friends, you know, keeping you
stay awake or something.
I'm I'm at the age that I find
it adamant that I if I'm going
to sleep, I need to go sleep. I
I don't find being pressured to
go as deep as say later at
night.
I would be more to my own
choice, but I don't. I don't
Umm.
feel pressured.
Uh, it was. This is a set time.
This is my own personal time and
I would like to eat by myself
with no one around.
So this is pretty serious thing
for me.
Can you tell me a time? Can you
tell me about a time when you
had a particularly good night's
sleep? What factors contributed
to that experience?
So it would be.
Between my undergrad and grad
days.
I was just. I'm I I have no
studies to follow. I I'm I had I
am alone in my own room. I have
my own bed. I can set my own
temperature. No ones gonna
disturb me. No one is at home. I
have no social pressures. Would
be a time in my life that I find
that I had the best.
So.
Would do you say like like
akhilan academic pressure? It's
like the one of the contributors
in like making the making it
hard for the people to sleep.
Yes, I do consider academic
pressures, especially the time
of exams and assignments. Dear
is one of the things that caused
bad sleep.
Alright.
Do you share your bed with a
partner or roommate?
No, I do not.
Right.
And I do not prefer to share a
person a bed with the new one. I
But.
would prefer to sleep alone
because, you know, you may not
And.
have your own leg space or your
own sharing of your own sheets.
So I would prefer to sleep
alone, even if I do have a
partner.
So like as you were talking, so
can you describe more of the
impacts that it'll have on your
sleep if you do share your bed
with your partner or a roommate?
So one of the few things that I
currently consider is like the
person's snoring, the persons
own body heat, having being
aware that they're the person
right next to you, he may judge
you for your actions itself is
anxiety inducing. It is anxious
state condition. So I would
consider that having being alone
is a better option to sleep.
Right.
Are there any other factors or
information you think you would
be important for us to consider
when designing an app to promote
healthy sleep habits?
Currently I was saying the
ambiance of the app. The sounds
that it make connect with or.
A support.
That a person does not have
enough sleep, what he can do to
improve his sleep or just talk
with someone is something that I
would consider the person that
the app has. Consider that if if
the person has not has enough
sleep, what he could do to
improve his sleep, what options
he can seek for his own health
and mental health can be one
option that I would consider
that a person the app considers.
For.
And what about waking up? Like
what factors? And you know,
information you think would be
important?
To like for us to consider when
designing an app to like wake
them up on time.
Or in a better manner like that,
they feel energized or
refreshed.
That is a difficult question, I
would say, but what I would
consider is that, uh, some
seeing about habits of person.
With healthy habits like taking
breakfast on time after waking
up or just sitting.
Waking up and sitting for few a
few minutes just to collect your
thoughts. Thoughts.
Is when I have to come things I
would consider, but I can't say
for waking up as strongly as I
can for sleeping.
Alright, alright.
Do you have any questions or
would you like to add anything
else to your responses?
Uh.
No, I'm pretty.
Sure of my statements and now
you're not. I don't think I
would add anything else.
Thank you for your time. And if
you do have any questions or the
responses that you would like to
add, feel free to contact me on
the.
Information provided to you.
Alright. Thank you for your time
again.
Are you welcome? Thank you.
Thank you very much. I sure
will.
Curry.